What is HTML?
	HyperText Markup Language 
	although not a programming language, used to tell a browser how to structure a webpage 
	
What is the anatomy of an HTML page?
	opening tag
	closing tag 
	content 
	attributes 
	
Can you tell me some HTML tags?
	a img ol li ul table thead tbody header footer p div script h1 through h6 span title link 
	
What is XML?
	Extensible Markup Language 
	software- and hardware-independent tool for storing and transporting data
	Used to carry data, not to display it 

What is the difference between an XML element and an XML attribute?
	both are used to carry data
	element 
		can carry multiple values (nest values, like li to an ol)
		expandable for future use 
		can describe the structure (table, table elements)
	attributes 
		cannot carry multiple values 
		are not easily expandable for future use 
		cannot describe the structure 
	best to use attributes to describe info that is relevant to the data 

What is well-formed XML?
	refers to correct XML syntax 
	1. XML docs must have a root element 
	2. XML elements must have closing tags 
	3. XML tags are case sensitive 
	4. XML tags must be properly nested 
	5. XML attributes must be quoted ""
	
	Qu N RE CS CT 

What is a Document Type Definition?
	a set of markup declarations that defines the legal building blocks of an XML document	

What is an XML Schema?
	like a Document Type Definition, a schema provides a list of elements which may be used to describe the hierarchy
	  in which elements are to be used, as well as provide the means to enforce the elements to be used in a specific format
	simple and complex types 
	type inheritance 
	XML namespaces to create compound documents of multiple markup languages 
	
What is valid XML?
	well-formed XML that conforms to a Document Type Definition 

What is CSS?
	Cascading StyleSheet
	used to style HTML pages 
	why? centralize a location to change styles 

What is Bootstrap?
	developed by twitter, 
	front-end component library and contains themes to style webpages 
		includes CSS and JS libraries

What is JavaScript?
	object oriented as of ES6, 
	client side interpreted language that is understood by web browsers to make web pages dynamic 
	not meant for creating desktop applications, not java 
	cannot be used to access local files 
	built for DOM manipulation 
		Document Object Model 
			represent the document as nodes and objects so that programs can manipulate structure, style, and content 

What are the data types?
	JS data types 
		primitives
			boolean 
			null 
			undefined 
			number 
			string 
			symbol
		object
			function **
			array 
			(date? time?)
			
		S U N B N S 
		F A 
		

How can objects be created in JavaScript?
	collection of key-value pairs 
	created with 
		"new" keyword:  		let person = new Object();
								person.name = "William";
		literal notation:		let person = {
									name = "William",
									age = 25
									};
		form of "constructor"	function Person(name, age){
									this.name = name;
									this.age = age;
								}
								let p = new Person("William", 25);

What makes functions in JavaScript different from other languages?
	functions are objects!
	can be anonymous 
	can be self-invoking 
	can be used as callbacks 
	can be hoisted 
	
	O H A SI CB 
	
What is truthy and falsy?
	values that do not evaluate to what is expected 
		false, 0, "", NaN, null, and undefined are all false 
		null == null //true 
		null == undefined // true 
		undefined == null //true 
		undefined == undefined //true 
		null == ANYTHINGELSE // false 
		console.log("" == 0) //true 
		NaN is not equal to anything, including itself 
		NaN == NaN //false 

What is the purpose of isNan?
	determines if a number is a number or not
	useful if adding a data type to be a number, and you aren't sure if it will be 

Is JavaScript pass by value or pass by reference?
	by value 

What are undeclared variables and undefined variables?
	undeclared variables
		not declared not initialized 
		throw a runtime error if an attempt to access is made 
	undefined variable 
		declared but not initialized 
		undefined value 

What are the variable scopes in JavaScript?
	global: available throughout the length of the program 
	local: available in the block which they were defined 
	block: new to ES6, available in the block which it is declared, uses "let"
	constant: new to ES6, declares variables whose values are not intended to change, "const"

What are global variables?
	declared outside of a function 

How do you add new elements dynamically?
	.push()

What is the difference between == and ===?
	"==" 
		returns true if and only if both operands have the same value 
		3 == '3' returns true 
	"==="
		returns true if and only if both operands are of the same type and value 
		type equality checks first 
		3 === '3' returns false
		3 === 3 returns true 
	
How would one submit a form using JavaScript?
	document.getElementById("myForm").submit()
		
What is an event listener?
	sometimes called handlers 
	listens for an event to occur on a specified tag and invoke its callback function 
	someElement.addEventListener(type, function, useCapture)
		type can be an element, document, window, any object that supports events 
		function is the function to be invoked when event occurs 
		useCapture is a boolean which specifies if capturing or bubbling should be used 

What is an event in JS? What are some common events?
	in JS are reactions to user input 
	in general, events begin with "on" 
	onclick 
	onsubmit 
	onmouseover
	onkeydown 

What is the difference between bubbling and capturing?
	Bubbling is when events are executed from the innermost tags to the outermost tags 
	Capturing is when events are executed from the outermost tags to the innermost 

What is strict mode?
	removes bad syntax, and allows for more secure javascript code 

In what ways can you get references to HTML elements programmatically?
		getElementById() 
		getElementsByTagName()			// returns an array 
		getElementsByClassName() 		// returns an array 
		querySelector("p.intro")		// returns the first tag with the css selector p.intro 
		querySelectorAll("li.active") 	// returns an array of all tags with the CSS selector li.active 
		
		Id, TagName, ClassName
		Selector, SelectorALl 

How do we achieve encapsulation in JavaScript?
	a closure is the combination of a function and the lexical environment within which the function was declared 
	closures allow for encapsulation because the scopes in JS are global, local, and block 
	inner functions have access to variables in outer functions 
	function out() {
		let a = 3; 
		function Inner1(){
			let b = 4;
			function Inner2(){
				let c = 5;
			}
		}
	}

How do we achieve inheritance in JavaScript?
	JS supports prototypal inheritance 
	every object in JS has a private property which holds a link to another object called its prototype 
	when trying to access a property, that property will not only be searched for on the object,
	  but that object's prototype, the prototype of the prototype, and so on, 
	  until a matching name is found or the end of the prototype chain is reached 

Can functions be overloaded?
	no

Can functions be overridden?
	sort of? you can redeclare a function with the same name, but loses all previously meaning 

What is JSON?
	Javascript Object Notation
	safe and reliable data interchange object 
	allows for things, like objects, to be serialized, and sent to a server 
	.parse()		.stringify()

What is AJAX? What is the AJAX workflow?
	Asynchronous Javascript And XML 
	used to update data on a webpage asynchronously between a browser and server without refreshing the page 
	
	1. declare and instantiate an XMLHttpRequest object 
	2. define and assign a function to the onreadystatechange 
	3. call xhr.open() 
	4. call xhr.send()
	5. if a response was recieved, utilize it 

	
***


What are the important XMLHttpRequest properties?
	onreadystatechange: event handler that is called every time the readystate attribute changes 
	readyState: returns the state of the request 
	responseText: returns the server response as a String 
	responseXML: returns the server response as XML 
	status: returns the HTTP status code of the response of the request 
	statustext: returns the string associated with the HTTP statuscode 
	
	O R R R S S 

What are the different values of readyState?
	Value 		State 					Description 
	0			UNSENT					client has been created, open() not called
	1			OPENED					open() has been called
	2			HEADERS.RECIEVED		send() has ben called
	3			LOADING					downloading; responseText holds partial data 
	4			DONE 					operation is complete 
	
	
***
	
	
What are some advantages of using AJAX?
	more interactive 
	data is retrieved faster 
	bandwidth utilization 
		save memory when data is fetched from the same page 

What are some disadvantages of using AJAX?
	fully dependent on JS 
	source code is easily human readible, and thus security issues 
	increases the size of HTTP requests
	web pages that heaviy rely on AJAX causes problems with the back button 

What technologies use AJAX?
	HTML CSS 
	DOM 
	JSON XML 
	JS 

What is HTTP?
	HyperText Transfer Protocal
	how 2 computers communicate, such as a client and server 

What is an HTTP status code?
	whenever a request is made, a response is generated with extra information about the response 
		1XX information 
		2XX successful 
		3XX redirect
		4XX client error 
		5XX server error 

What is the difference between GET and POST?
	GET uses the URL to send the data 
	POST sends data in the request body 
	
What is the SDLC?
	Software Development LifeCycle 
		process for planning, creating, testing, and deploying an information system 
	in general, every SDLC methodology follows these steps 
		1. the existing system is evaluated, deficiencies are identified 
		2. new system requirements are defined
		3. proposed system is designed 
			hardware, OS, programming, security issues, etc 
		4. new system is developed 
			all aspects of performance are test 
		5. new system is implemented 
			either outright, or gradually 
		6. once the system has been deployed for a timespan, it is exhaustively evaluated 
		
		E R D D I E 

What is the Waterfall Method?
	linear sequential approach 

What is Agile?
	iterative, requirements and solutions evolve through the collaboration of cross-functional teams 
	you don't just "do" agile, rather it is a mindset 	
	frameworks are comprehensive approaches to the phases of the SDLC 
	  planning, execution, devlivery
	1. Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
	2. Working software over comprehensive documentation 
	3. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
	4. Responding to change over following a plan 

What is Scrum?
	Agile framework for completing complex projects 
	Iterative 
	Entire lifecycle is completed in a fixed time period called a sprint

What is the Scrum Workflow?
	Scrum Roles 
		1. product owner 
			represents the product stakeholder and the voice of the company 
			responsible for what the team is building and why
			backlog up-to-date and in priority order 
			defines the product in customer centric terms (user stories) and adds to the product backlog 
		2. scrum master 
			ensures the scrum process is followed
			always on the lookout for how the team can improve as well as resolving any impediments 
			part coach, part cheerleader, part team member 
		3. scrum team 
			individuals that actually build the product 
			the team owns the engineering of the product and the quality that goes with it 
			
			
	Scrum Lifecycle 
		1. Product owner creates a prioritzed wish list, called the product backlog 
		2. during sprint planning, the team pulls a small chunk off of that wishlist and decides implementation 
		3. team has a certain amount of time to complete its work, but they meets for a "daily standup"
		4. at the end of the sprint, the word should be potentially shippable 
		5. a sprint review is held 
		6. new sprint begins, team chooses next chunk off backlog, repeat 

	PB SP DS PS SR R 

XML namespace
	compound documents of multiple markup languages 
	
Callback function 
	function passed as a function parameter 








